Socat Encrypted Bind Shells
To add encryption to a bind shell, we’ll
rely on Secure Socket Layer certificates.
This level of encryption will assist
in evading intrusion detection systems
and will help hide the sensitive data
we are transceiving.
We’ll use the openssl application
to create a self-signed certificate
using the following options:
The req command, along
with the -x509 option
creates self-signed certificates
-newkey will generate a new private key
rsa:2048 will specify RSA encryption
with a 2,048-bit key length.
-nodes will store the
private key unencrypted
-keyout will save the key to a file
-days specifies the validity
period in days
… and out will save the
certificate to a file
Let’s walk through this process
on Alice’s machine now:
Now that the key and certificate
have been generated,
we need to convert them into
a format socat will accept.
We’ll combine both the “bind shell key”
and “bind shell cert” files into
a single DOT PEM file.
Now let’s create the
encrypted socat listener.
The OPENSSL-LISTEN option
creates a listener on port 443.
The cert option specifies
our certificate file,
verify disables SSL verification
and fork spawns a child process once
a connection is made to the listener.
Now, we can connect Bob’s
computer to Alice’s bind shell.
We will use a hyphen to transfer data
between STDIO and the remote host,
OPENSSL to establish a remote
SSL connection to Alice’s listener,
and verify=0 to disable SSL
certificate verification.
Great! Our bind shell was
created successfully
and we are able to pass
commands to Alice’s machine.
Take some time to explore
socat on your own.
This is one of many tools that
will be extremely beneficial
during a penetration test.